---
title 		: Essential Studio for JSP 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JSP 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
platform    : jsp
---

# Essential JS for JSP Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_4 version=site.version.2016_vol_4 %} 



# Common

## Overview

Syncfusion JSP server side wrapper with over 40+ controls provide the enhanced way to create the rich dynamic web applications effortlessly. Components offered with this package are JavaScript UI controls which lets to customize the functionality and looks via altered options and themes.


## Key Features

### Faster Execution and enriched performance 
Optimized UI codes along with native behavior like recompile and redeploy delivers the light weight implementation and faster execution of JSP enterprise web applications.

### Dynamic web applications
Essential JSP wrapper provides option to create dynamic web applications along with rich features enabled UI controls.

### Template support
Built-in Template Support will provide the easy option to customize the control appearance and to create the own visualized elements with components.

### Localization simplified
All components can be easily customized to use resources from the desired locale.

### Mobile and touch friendly rendering
Easily develop applications that work well on desktop, tablet and phone devices. The controls render adaptively based on the device that it is currently rendering on to provide an optimal usage experience.

### Stunning built-in themes
All components ship with several stunning built-in themes. However, if you need to customize the appearance then you can easily do so using the Theme Studio utility.

### All modern browsers are supported
Compliant will all popular browsers including IE8+, Microsoft Edge, Chrome 17+, Firefox 22+, Safari 5+ and Opera 12+


## 40+ JSP Controls in Single Suite

### Grids

* Grid
* TreeGrid
* Spreadsheet

### Data Visualization

* Chart
* Gantt
* Schedule
* Diagram
* Maps
* TreeMap
* HeatMap
* Circular Gauge
* LinearGauge
* Digital Gauge
* BulletGraph
* Range Navigator
* Barcode
* TagCloud
* Kanban Board
* Sparkline

### Layout

* Tooltip
* Splitter
* Dialog
* ListView
* TileView

### Editors

* RichTextEditor
* ColorPicker
* DatePicker
* DateTimePicker
* TimePicker
* TextBoxes
* Autocomplete
* RadialSlider
* Rating
* DropDownList
* Slider
* Button

### Navigation

* Ribbon
* RadialMenu
* DatePicker
* TreeView
* Rotator
* Tab
* Menu
* Accordion
* ListBox
* Toolbar
* Scrollbar
* Navigation Drawer

### Notification
{:#notification-category}

* Progressbar
* Waiting Popup

### Business Intelligence
* PivotGrid
* PivotChart
* PivotGauge
* PivotTreeMap

